<!--
Title: D3 data-binding and selections
Preview: An interactive visual showing a few key concepts of the JS visualization library D3.js
Main Points:
- D3 joins data to visual elements so the data drives the visual
- D3 'selections' allow for unique visual changes for the different states of changing data
-->
<iframe width='100%' scrolling="no" onload="this.style.height=this.contentDocument.body.scrollHeight +'px';" src='../../assets/temp/images/7/index.html'></iframe>

## D3 data joins and selections

The data join concept is central to D3—this concept is simple once you understand it, but for whatever reason I wasn't able to fully wrap my head around it for a while.

I made this visual to show the concepts of data joins and the enter, update, and exit selections. **It allows users to manually add, change, and delete data points and watch the effect on the data-bound visual elements**. The data is an array of x/y coordinates that are visible to the user, and the visual elements are circles that are positioned according to their corresponding coordinate data.

### Additional reading

I am not going to attempt to do a full write-up of D3 joins and selections because currently I can't offer a unique perspective that hasn't already been written about. If you need want to learn more the following posts are great starting resources.

<a href="https://bost.ocks.org/mike/join/" target="_blank">Mike Bostock, *Thinking with Joins*</a> </br>
Mike Bostock is the creator of D3 and the authority on the subject. This article is helpful once you practice a little with D3 library, but it may be a little intimidating if you have no experience with D3.

<a href="https://medium.com/@c_behrens/enter-update-exit-6cafc6014c36#.3rzg38xsd" target="_blank">Christian Behrens, *Enter, Update, Exit*</a> </br>
In my opinion, this article is more thorough at explaining selections in D3 if you have no previous experience. Compared to Bostock's post there is more content, different code examples, and the author works through the concept in a very incremental way.

### <a href="https://github.com/haydenwagner/toadvine/tree/enter-update-exit" target="_blank">Github repo branch link</a>



