<!--
Title: Color Science Lab model (D3.js)
Preview: A JavaScript and D3.js application that models a color science process for online students
Main Points:
- This application uses D3.js to animate screen elements that model a color reading instrument and color samples
- Users can go through the processes of calibrating the instrument, reading samples and viewing the output, and downloading the generated data as a CSV
- The goal of the project was to give online students an opportunity to witness and interact with this real-life color science process
-->
## Project description
I am the developer for this project in my position at the Teaching and Learning Services center in Rochester, NY. The goal of this project was to create a one page application that would model a color science process for online students. The app features interactive elements, built in D3.js, that allows users to measure color samples and view the resulting measurements in an updating graph.

Users are provided with tips to walk them through the process of using the simulated instrument for the first time, and when they are finished with their measurements they can download a CSV of the measurement data.

## Application demo
The project is not public facing, but my employer has allowed me to screen capture a demo of the application in action. The demo shows the <u>instrument calibration process</u> (**0:00 - 0:30**), the process of <u>taking new color measurement and viewing the reflectance measures</u> (**0:31 - 1:24**), and it shows how users can <u>download selected measurement data as a CSV</u> (**1:25 - 1:48**).

<!--main video-->
<div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9">
    <video controls>
        <source src='../../assets/temp/images/8/color-science-lab-screencaps.mp4' type='video/mp4'>
        Not supported

     </video>
</div>

## Additional app features

Additionally, there is a popup video modal that shows when the user first loads the page that can show the real color measurement instrument and process. There is a checkbox that will disable the video popup and store that setting in the browser’s local storage.

Below is a video of the video popup when the app first loads and the local storage option that prevents the video from always loading (the demo has a placeholder video, not the production video of the instrument).

<div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9">
    <video controls>
        <source src='../../assets/temp/images/8/video-demo-launch-no-audio.mp4' type='video/mp4'>
        Not supported

     </video>
</div>

## Final thoughts

The complete project is deployed to RIT's Learning Management System, MyCourses, to allow online students to access and use the application.




