<!--
Title: Task request form integrated with Asana API
Preview: An application that improves the efficiency of a task submission and management system
Main Points:
- The client side of this app is a form that is customized to accept the many different task request types that may be made to our department.
- The form allows users and workers to quickly submit detailed task requests
- The front-end of the application is built primarily with HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, and Bootstrap
- The back-end of this application uses Node.js, Express.js, and Socket.io to integrate with the Asana API
-->

## Project description
My current department, Teaching and Learning Services at the Wallace Center in Rochester, NY, uses the <a href="https://asana.com/" target="_blank">Asana web platform</a> to manage the different captioning and media requests that are submitted to our department. In the past, these requests were submitted through a long Google form.

The goal of this project was to make the task input process more efficient and create a system that would allow for further automation in the future.

## Submitting task requests to Asana
This project features a bootstrap form as the front-end user interface, with different form fields and features for different request types. Both technologically savvy and nontechnical users will use the form, so it features real-time help and information about the different form inputs.

Below is a video of a sample task being submitted through the form, along with verification that the task was successfully submitted to the Asana database.

<!--main video-->
<div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9">
    <video controls>
        <source src='../../assets/temp/images/9/test-submission-task-form.mp4' type='video/mp4'>
        Not supported

     </video>
</div>

## Other features
The form validates its inputs as a user moves through the form fields and submits the form. Different task request types reveal specific form fields as they are selected, and some requests support adding additional fields, for instance, submitting multiple videos to be captioned in the same request. The following video shows some of these additional application features.

<div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9">
    <video controls>
        <source src='../../assets/temp/images/9/task-form-other-features.mp4' type='video/mp4'>
        Not supported

     </video>
</div>

## Web technologies used
The front-end portion of this application relies heavily on **HTML**, **JavaScript**, **jQuery**, and **Bootstrap** to provide its core functions. It uses JS plugins to add additional features, such as **Tether.io** for the pinned help div, **bootstrap-validator** to validate the form fields in a user-friendly way, and **bootstrap-datepicker** and **bootstrap-timepicker** to offer easy and accurate data and time input options to users.

The back-end of the form utilizes an **ES6 JavaScript** library to integrate with the Asana API; new requests and submitted by a **node server**, which then relays the Asana response information back to the front-end and the user. **Socket.io** is used to raise and listen for events between the client and server.





